![](skins/mios/images/logo.png)

UI5 manual

  
---  
  
![](images/spacer.gif)[Install & System
Requirements](index.html#!docs5/installation_and_system_requirements_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Basic System Setup ](index.html#!docs5/getting_started_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Guided Feature Walkthroughs
](features_en_3Lite_all.html)

![](skins/mios/images/minus.gif)[Vera Web
Portal](index.html#!docs5/web_portal_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Dashboard](index.html#!docs5/dashboard_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Devices](index.html#!docs5/devices_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/minus.gif)[Automation](index.html#!docs5/automation_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/minus.gif)[Scenes](index.html#!docs5/scenes_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Adding a Scene](index.html#!docs5/adding_a_scene_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Triggers](index.html#!docs5/triggers_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Schedules](index.html#!docs5/schedules_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Luup](index.html#!docs5/luup_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Advanced](index.html#!docs5/scene_advanced_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Triggers](index.html#!docs5/triggers_list_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Schedules](index.html#!docs5/schedules_list_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Scene examples](index.html#!docs5/Scene_examples_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Apps](index.html#!docs5/apps_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Account](index.html#!docs5/account_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Energy](index.html#!docs5/energy_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Setup](index.html#!docs5/setup_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Advanced
Configuration](index.html#!docs5/advanced_configuration_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Vera Compatible
Devices](index.html#!docs5/supported_hardware_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Diagnostics &
Troubleshooting](index.html#!docs5/troubleshooting_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Developer Resources](index.html#!docs5/developers_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Glossary &
References](index.html#!docs5/reference_en_3Lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Manual Z-Wave Routing](index.html#!docs5/ManualRoute_en_3Lite_all.md)

|

[Previous](index.html#!docs5/scenes_en_3Lite_all.html) [Next](triggers_en_3Lite_all.md)

Adding a Scene

  
Go to "Automation > New Scene". You will find a variety of options here to
control the different aspects of your scene. These are Devices, Triggers,
Schedules, Luup, and Advanced  
  
![](/images/mios/create-scene-home.png)  
  
In addition to controlling these aspects of your scene, you can also set
Delays and associate scenes with your rooms.

Delays

A Delay is a timer that you can use to change the status of the device in the
near future.For example you want your lights to turn on as soon as the scene
runs (immediate), and you want them to turn off after 2 minutes. This is
called a Delay.

To set a **Delay**, you have to click on the orange dropdown menu that says
'Immediate'. This will allow you to manage delays and specify different
commands for each delay.

  
![](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/wm1oCgghNMmEooHYmPuUa7oX1d35ITR5V-
fgkfDA1oj36VP6XXXigBBLTMVraEaKfGAT7rFD93grxE3eqJgwjKdd7ynO8g4ZZBkQ-
rcctdoakfuYRLpe)

On the drop down menu -> Manage delays button

![](/images/mios/manage-delay1.png)

On the new popup window please enter the value and select seconds, minutes or
hours and click close.  

![](/images/mios/manage-delay.png)  

After adding a **Delay** (e.g. 5 minutes), you have to select the newest
created Delay and you will notice in the list of devices below, there will be
no button pressed. Whenever you switch from one delay to another, from
Immediate to 5 minutes, you will be able to select different commands to be
executed.

For example you can set up a scene to turn on a light **immediate** the scene
is ran and turn off that same light after **5 minutes**.

  

NOTE: Associating a scene with a room is optional. This feature can be useful
for helping you to organize your scenes. For example, hallway and bathroom
lights can be triggered if bedroom lights are switched on late at night,
therefore you may want to associate this scene with the bedroom. Perhaps you'd
like the living room thermostat turned down if the temperature outside reaches
high degrees. You would associate this scene with your living room.  

  

  



  

