![](skins/mios/images/logo.png)

UI5 manual

  
---  
  
![](images/spacer.gif)[Install & System
Requirements](index.html#!docs5/installation_and_system_requirements_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Basic System Setup ](index.html#!docs5/getting_started_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Guided Feature Walkthroughs
](features_en_3lite_all.html)

![](skins/mios/images/minus.gif)[Vera Web
Portal](index.html#!docs5/web_portal_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/minus.gif)[Dashboard](index.html#!docs5/dashboard_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Control Pads](index.html#!docs5/control_pads_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Pinned Devices](index.html#!docs5/pinned_devices_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Overview](index.html#!docs5/overview_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Watts](index.html#!docs5/Watts_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Devices](index.html#!docs5/devices_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Automation](index.html#!docs5/automation_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Apps](index.html#!docs5/apps_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Account](index.html#!docs5/account_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Energy](index.html#!docs5/energy_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Setup](index.html#!docs5/setup_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Advanced
Configuration](index.html#!docs5/advanced_configuration_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Vera Compatible
Devices](index.html#!docs5/supported_hardware_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Diagnostics &
Troubleshooting](index.html#!docs5/troubleshooting_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Developer Resources](index.html#!docs5/developers_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Glossary &
References](index.html#!docs5/reference_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Manual Z-Wave Routing](index.html#!docs5/ManualRoute_en_3lite_all.md)

|

[Previous](index.html#!docs5/web_portal_en_3lite_all.md)
[Next](index.html#!docs5/control_pads_en_3lite_all.md)

Dashboard

The dashboard has 2 purposes:  
  
1. Controlling your Devices and Scenes   
2. Advanced setup and configuration of the system  
  
![dasboard home](/images/mios/dashboard-home.png)  
  
  
  
  
Dashboard Overview  
  
NOTE:  by default, Vera does not have any rooms or sections.  You can
optionally create rooms if you have lots of devices and scenes, and you can
create sections if you have lots of rooms.  
  
NOTE: Whenever you have made configuration or setup changes, the "SAVE" button
will appear on the right side. You must click "SAVE" if you want to keep your
changes.  If you close the browser without clicking "SAVE", any changes made
since your last "SAVE" will be lost.  
  
![](/images/mios/save-button.jpg)  
  
The dashboard has 4 parts:  
  
1. Banner Area   
2. Control Menu  
3. Filter Menus  
4. Main Section  
  
  
1\. The Banner at the top displays the current time according to the Vera
system.  If the time is not correct, click on "Setup > Location" to adjust
your time, timezone and location settings.  
![dashboard location](/images/mios/dashboard-location.png)  
  
  
  
  
  
If there are general system messages, like the Vera system is busy resetting,
or a plugin has failed to load, a message window will appear in the banner.
When the message window is not shown, everything is ok and you can continue
using the system.  
  
![server busy](/images/mios/dashboard-server-busy.png)  
  
If the message window says "Server Busy", like the above image, that means the
MiOS engine is busy saving some recent changes and is not ready to be used
yet.  Just wait for the message to go away. The CONTROL Menu under the banner
allows you add and control the following categories:  
  
DEVICES    AUTOMATION    APPS    USERS    ENERGY    SETUP  
  
![](/images/mios/menu-closeup\(2\).png)  
  
  
3. The FILTER menus let you restrict what you see on the screen.  For example, they allow you to choose between the various Devices, the different setup options for Automation, and different options for User control.  
  
4. The Main Section contains various panels for every room created. You can hide any of the panels by clicking the ![hide panel button](/images/mios/UI5_hidePanel_btn.PNG) button. These panels contain Control Pads for Devices, Scenes, Climates, and other setup items.  
  
![](/images/mios/dashboard-panels2.png)  
  
![](/images/mios/pads-lights.jpg)    ![](/images/mios/pads-humidity.jpg)
![](/images/mios/pads-thermostat.jpg)  
  
  
Hover your mouse cursor over the Control Pad title to see the "Pin" and
"Configure" buttons:  
  
![](/images/mios/pin-configure.PNG)  
  
You can perform the basic tasks, like activating a scene or adjusting a light,
by clicking the buttons within the Control Pod.  If you want to perform
advanced configuration of a Scene or a Device, or delete it from the system,
click the ![](/images/mios/setup_icon_UI5.png) "Configure" button.  
  
A Device or Scene will be color coded green if it's busy doing something. For
example, a scene is activating or a light is adjusting.  Red means there's a
problem with the scene or device, such as a device that is not responding or
not configured, or a scene that failed to activate properly.  Generally when a
device or scene is shown in red or green, a small message window appears
telling you what's going on.  Often times there's too much information for the
small message window. Hover your mouse pointer over the message window to see
the full text.  
  
![](/images/mios/pads-red.jpg)     ![](/images/mios/pads-green.jpg)

  

