![](skins/mios/images/logo.png)

UI5 manual

  
---  
  
![](images/spacer.gif)[Install & System
Requirements](index.html#!docs5/installation_and_system_requirements_en_3Pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Basic System Setup ](index.html#!docs5/getting_started_en_3Pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Guided Feature Walkthroughs
](features_en_3Pro_all.html)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Vera Web Portal](index.html#!docs5/web_portal_en_3Pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Advanced
Configuration](index.html#!docs5/advanced_configuration_en_3Pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Vera Compatible
Devices](index.html#!docs5/supported_hardware_en_3Pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Diagnostics &
Troubleshooting](index.html#!docs5/troubleshooting_en_3Pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Developer Resources](index.html#!docs5/developers_en_3Pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Glossary &
References](index.html#!docs5/reference_en_3Pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Manual Z-Wave Routing](index.html#!docs5/ManualRoute_en_3Pro_all.md)

|

[Next](index.html#!docs5/getting_started_en_3Pro_all.md)

Install & System Requirements

  
If you haven't done so already, connect the Vera system to your home network
now as shown:  
  
Front View  
  
![](/images/mios/vera3_frontview.png)  
  
Back View  
  
![](/images/mios/vera3_back.png)  
  
All 3 lights should be lit , solidly as shown (not blinking). If the WAN and
Z-Wave indicators fail to light up solidly or if you need to change the
advanced settings (such as setting a static IP) please see
[troubleshooting](index.html#!docs5/network_troubleshooting_en_all_all.md).  
  
  
You will use a web browser to setup and maintain your Vera system.  All modern
browsers should work fine so long as you have not disabled JavaScript or
cookies.  Vera 3 is tested for compatibility with Microsoft Internet Explorer,
Firefox, Apple Safari, and Google Chrome.  
  
Please visit <http://cp.mios.com/firmware>. The page will show you the
connection diagram above, and will tests to ensure that your Vera system is
connected and functioning properly. It will then guide you through the next
steps and you will also be able to register an account on cp.mios.com so you
can access Vera remotely  
When the WAN and Z-Wave indicators are lit up solidly, click "Continue" to
begin setting up your Vera system.  
  
If you do not have an Internet connection you can still use Vera. You will
lose the ability to remotely access your Vera system over the Internet and use
the other online services, but all other features work fine with or without an
Internet connection. To use the Vera system without an Internet connection,
after powering on the Vera system when the Z-Wave indicator lights up solidly
to indicate that the Vera system is ready, you will see the WAN indicator
doing a double blink pattern. This indicates that your Vera system is running
without an Internet connection. Connect your computer's network cable to the
Vera's LAN port, or, if your computer has Wi-Fi, you can scan for available
wireless networks. You will see Vera's wireless network, which starts with the
system. When you can connect wirelessly you will need to provide the Wi-Fi
password which is printed on the underneath side of your Vera system. If you
are connecting to your Vera system without Internet, proceed directly to The
Dashboard by typing in your browser's address bar the following IP
192.168.81.1. Be careful though because for accessing the Dashboard this way
implies that you have "Obtain an IP address automatically" setting selected on
your network settings. If you setup your IP manually make sure you set in the
192.168.81.X class.  

  

