![](skins/mios/images/logo.png)

UI5 manual

  
---  
  
![](images/spacer.gif)[Install & System
Requirements](index.html#!docs5/installation_and_system_requirements_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Basic System Setup ](index.html#!docs5/getting_started_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Guided Feature Walkthroughs
](features_en_3lite_all.html)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Vera Web Portal](index.html#!docs5/web_portal_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Advanced
Configuration](index.html#!docs5/advanced_configuration_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Vera Compatible
Devices](index.html#!docs5/supported_hardware_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Diagnostics &
Troubleshooting](index.html#!docs5/troubleshooting_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Developer Resources](index.html#!docs5/developers_en_3lite_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Glossary &
References](index.html#!docs5/reference_en_3lite_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Manual Z-Wave Routing](index.html#!docs5/ManualRoute_en_3lite_all.md)

|

[Next](index.html#!docs5/getting_started_en_3lite_all.md)

Install & System Requirements

  
If you haven't done so already, connect the Vera system to your home network
now as shown:  
  
Front View  
  
![](/images/mios/veralite_front.PNG)  
  
Back View  
  
![](/images/mios/veralite_back.PNG)  
  
All 3 lights (Power, Ready and Network) should be lit , solidly as shown (not
blinking). If the Network and Ready  indicators fail to light up solidly or if
you need to change the advanced settings (such as setting a static IP) please
see [troubleshooting](index.html#!docs5/network_troubleshooting_en_all_all.md).  
  
  
You will use a web browser to setup and maintain your Vera system.  All modern
browsers should work fine so long as you have not disabled JavaScript or
cookies.  Vera is tested for compatibility with Microsoft Internet Explorer,
Firefox, Apple Safari, and Google Chrome.  
  
Please visit <http://cp.mios.com/firmware>. The page will show you the
connection diagram above, and will tests to ensure that your Vera system is
connected and functioning properly. It will then guide you through the next
steps and you will also be able to register an account on cp.mios.com so you
can access Vera remotely  
When the Network and Ready  indicators are lit up solidly, click "Continue" to
begin setting up your Vera system.  
  
If you do not have an Internet connection you can still use Vera. You will
lose the ability to remotely access your Vera system over the Internet and use
the other online services, but all other features work fine with or without an
Internet connection. To use the Vera system without an Internet connection,
after powering on the Vera system when the Z-Wave indicator lights up solidly
to indicate that the Vera system is ready, you will see the WAN indicator
doing a double blink pattern.This indicates that your Vera system is running
without an Internet connection. Connect your computer's network cable to the
Vera's WAN port and setup a static IP. To do that power on Vera like normal
and when you see the double blink pattern, set your computer to the static IP
192.168.81.2 netmask 255.255.255.0.  
Then open a web browser to http://192.168.81.1 and choose Vera's Setup, Net &
Wi-Fi option.  
Even without an internet connection, you can still use Vera, although you will
miss out on some power on Vera, wait 2 minutes until Vera's 'Ready' light
stays on solid. Vera will attempt to automatically get an IP address. If you
do not have a home network, connect your computer directly to Vera's WAN port
and give your computer a static IP of 192.168.81.2 with a netmask of
255.255.255.0. Then, open a browser to http://192.168.81.1 and follow Vera's
setup.  

  

