![](skins/mios/images/logo.png)

UI5 manual

  
---  
  
![](images/spacer.gif)[Install & System
Requirements](index.html#!docs5/installation_and_system_requirements_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Basic System Setup ](index.html#!docs5/getting_started_en_3pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Guided Feature Walkthroughs
](features_en_3pro_all.html)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Vera Web Portal](index.html#!docs5/web_portal_en_3pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Advanced
Configuration](index.html#!docs5/advanced_configuration_en_3pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/minus.gif)[Vera Compatible
Devices](index.html#!docs5/supported_hardware_en_3pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Z-Wave Devices](index.html#!docs5/zwave_devices_en_3pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/minus.gif)[Network Cameras](index.html#!docs5/ip_camera_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Supported IP Cameras](index.html#!docs5/supported_cameras_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[VistaCam](index.html#!docs5/vistacam_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Panasonic IP Cameras](index.html#!docs5/panasonic_ip_cameras_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Foscam Pan/Tilt](index.html#!docs5/foscam_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Manually adding a camera](ip_camera_en_3pro_all.htmls)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[IR devices](index.html#!docs5/infrared_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Insteon Devices](index.html#!docs5/Insteon_en_3pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Alarm panels](index.html#!docs5/alarm_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Aeon Home Energy Monitor](index.html#!docs5/aeon_en_3pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Diagnostics &
Troubleshooting](index.html#!docs5/troubleshooting_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Developer Resources](index.html#!docs5/developers_en_3pro_all.md)

![](skins/mios/images/plus.gif)[Glossary &
References](index.html#!docs5/reference_en_3pro_all.md)

![](images/spacer.gif)[Manual Z-Wave Routing](index.html#!docs5/ManualRoute_en_3pro_all.md)

|

[Previous](index.html#!docs5/ip_camera_en_3pro_all.html) [Next](vistacam_en_3pro_all.md)

Supported IP Cameras

  
If you buy an IP camera from Mi Casa Verde, we will pre-configure it to work
with Vera right out of the box. If you get the camera yourself, and it's a
model that is 'Plug and Play' compatible with our unit (see 'Supported
Cameras' below), then you should be sure the camera is configured to get an IP
address automatically, and that the username is set to: **dceadmin** and the
password is set to: **dcepass**. Vera will add the camera automatically and
fill in the settings. (Specific info for users of [Panasonic IP
Cameras](/panasonic_ip_cameras_en_all_all.html))  When adding a camera that is
not on the supported list, see the section '**Manually adding a camera'** by
clicking here.  
  
Supported Cameras

|  Manufacturer  |  Device Type  |  Model no.  |  Version  |  Date Purchased
|  Location (indoor/outdoor)  |  Specs  |  Product Review  |  Notes  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Mi Casa Verde

|

IP Camera

|

VistaCam

|

all

|

|

Indoor

|

|

|

The VistaCam comes pre-configured with the Vera unit so when you connect the
camera to the network it will be detected automatically and you will be able
to add them to the Dashboard.You can read more information on how to setup the
VistaCam [here](index.html#!docs5/vistacam_en_0_all.md).  
  
  
Panasonic

|

IP Camera

|

BL-C131/BL-C30/BL-C230/BL-C210

|

all

|

  

|

Indoor

|

  

|

  

|

The Panasonic IP cameras work well with Vera. However, for unknown reasons,
the Panasonic camera will not get an IP address on your LAN until you run the
Windows software supplied with it. You do not need to install the software;
just insert the CD and tell the camera to get an IP address automatically
(DHCP). If you buy the camera from the Mi Casa Verde web shop we do this
before we ship it so the camera will work out of the box. Mac/Linux users who
buy the camera elsewhere will need a Windows PC to 'activate' the camera. Set
the default username/password on the camera to: dceadmin and dcepass for Vera
to detect the camera automatically, or, if you use your own username/password,
add the camera to Vera manually and provide Vera your username/password to
access the camera.You can find more instructions
[here](index.html#!docs5/panasonic_ip_cameras_en_0_all.md).  

Update: For Mac users please access this [link](http://www.networkwebcams.com
/ip-camera-learning-center/2008/05/16/howto-set-up-a-panasonic-ip-camera-
using-a-mac/) and setup your camera.  
  
**Cameras that work**

Manufacturer  |  Device Type  |  Model no.  |  Version  |  Date Purchased  |
Location (indoor/outdoor)  |  Path for JPEG image  |  Product Review  |  Added
by  |  Notes  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Foscam [[1]](http://www.foscam.us/) [[2]](http://www.foscam.com/)

|

IP Camera

|

[FI8908/FI8908W](http://www.foscam.com/Products_List.asp?id=128)

|

firmware 11.14.1.46 / 2.4.8.12

|

2010

|

Indoor

|

/snapshot.cgi

|

[Customer reviews](http://www.amazon.com/Wireless-Windows-compatible-
Installation-Included/product-
reviews/B0030FR08W/ref=dp_top_cm_cr_acr_txt?ie=UTF8&showViewpoints=1)

|

|

Use the Foscam IP Camera Tool for initial setup, then copy IP address and path
into Vera setup fields.

For Pan, Tilt support please go
[here](http://docs5.mios.com/doc.php?language=1&manual=1&page=foscam).  
  
  
Foscam  | IP Camera | FI9820W | 3.2.6.1.1_0618 |  | Indoor | tmpfs/snap.jpg |
| mcvgeorge |

Use the Foscam IP Camera Tool for initial setup, then copy IP address and path
into Vera setup fields.  
  
Foscam

| IP Camera | FI8910W/ |   |   | Outdoor | /cgi-
bin/CGIProxy.fcgi?cmd=snapPicture2&usr=username&pwd=password |   | mcvchris |
Add camera manually on the interface as a Foscam camera and then change the
URL with this path.  
Foscam | IP Camera |

FI8601W/FI9805W

|

V3.2.2.2.1-20121009

|   |

Outdoor

|

/tmpfs/auto.jpg

|   |

mcvanne

|  
  
Linksys

|

IP Camera

|

[WVC54GCA](http://homesupport.cisco.com/en-us/wireless/lbc/WVC54GCA/download)

|

all

|

2009

|

Indoor

|

img/snapshot.cgi

|

  

|

  

|

An inexpensive camera with moderate image quality. Use the Linksys setup
wizard for initial setup, then copy IP address and path into Vera setup
fields. Use a static IP address.  
  
Linksys

|

IP Camera

|

[WVC210](index.html#!docs5/http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/ps9948/index.md)

|

all

|

2009

|

Indoor

|

img/snapshot.cgi

|

  

|

  

|

A more expensive camera with good image quality and pan/tilt ability. Use the
Linksys setup wizard for initial setup, then copy IP address and path into
Vera setup fields. Use a static IP address. Pan/tilt controls will not work
with Vera.  
  
Linksys

|

IP Camera

|

[WVC80N](http://homesupport.cisco.com/en-
us/wireless/lbc/WVC80N?referrer=www.linksysbycisco.com)

|

all

|

2009

|

Indoor

|

img/snapshot.cgi?size=2&quality=1

|

  

|

  

|

A more expensive camera with good image quality and wireless N. Use the
Linksys setup wizard for initial setup, then copy IP address and path into
Vera setup fields. Use a static IP address. Pan/tilt controls will not work
with Vera.

Size can be (160 x 120 = 1,320 x 240 = 2,640 x 480 = 3) and Quality can be
(Very High= 1,High= 2,Normal= 3,Low= 4,Very Low= 5)  
  
iCamView

|

IP Camera Server

|

[iCV-22](http://icamview.com/icv22.htm),
[iCV-32](http://icamview.com/icv32.htm)

|

all

|

2009

|

Indoor/Outdoor

|

pda.cgi?user=admin&password=1234&page=image&cam=1

  
pda.cgi?user=admin&password=1234&page=image&cam=2

|

  

|

  

|

Feature-rich IP camera server, supports up to two compatible USB cameras,
optional WiFi support, USB storage, USB hubs, motion; works with range of
cameras, see icamview.co.uk. Excellent modular solution. They do ship to North
America.  
  
SmartHome.com.au SmartEye [Wansview](http://www.wansview.com/)

|

IP Camera

|

[Z~Series Wireless
Camera](http://www.smarthome.com.au/zseries/wirelesssecuritycamera.php) [IPCAM
Central SmartEye NC532W](http://www.ipcam-central.com/)

|

all

|

2009 [2011](http://www.ipcam-central.com/Smarteye-NC532W-FTP-p/nc532w-ftp.htm)

|

Indoor and [Outdoor H.264 w/FTP/email/SD](http://www.ipcam-central.com
/Smarteye-NC532W-FTP-p/nc532w-ftp.htm)

|

Static URL /tmpfs/auto.jpg (small) OR /tmpfs/snap.jpg (large)

|

  

|

  

|

Inexpensive IP security camera designed for the Australian and New Zealand
Z-Wave users, but shipping world wide. Luup file available from
[[3]](http://www.ipcam-central.com/) but not needed unless need PTZ. Despite
Vera only displaying small images use snap.jpg to get larger images in Home
Buddy for Android. Informational: QT URL for IE [http://x.x.x.x/iphone/11.qt?u
ser:password&amp](http://x.x.x.x/iphone/11.qt?user:password&amp); which
reveals RTSP RTP URL rtsp://x.x.x.x/iphone/11 (credentials required though)  
  
[LevelOne](http://global.level1.com/)

|

IP Camera

|

[WCS-2030](http://global.level1.com/product_d.php?id=54)

|

all

|

2010

|

Indoor

|

cgi-bin/video.jpg

|

[CNET review](http://reviews.cnet.com/search-results/levelone-camcon-
wcs-2030/1707-5_7-31972011.html)

|

  

|

An inexpensive IP camera with good image quality. Can be connected wired or
wirelessly. Most LevelOne cameras use the same path for the JPEG image, so
most of their line (both low and high end) should be compatible. Video and
audio also stream over RTSP, which can be customized through the camera's web
interface.  
  
Asante

|

IP Camera

|

[Voyager I](http://www.asante.com/products/SecureNetCam/Voyager1.asp)

|

firmware 2.02 and above

|

2010

|

Indoor

|

image.cgi

|

  

|

  

|

An inexpensive IP camera that is very feature rich, has good image quality,
night vision capabilities, motion detection, two-way audio, video streaming
over TCP, UDP, or HTTP, and other configurable features. In firmware version
2.02, Asante added the capability to retrieve an image via a URL (however, it
is delayed by 3 seconds). Offers a full-featured web interface in IE using an
ActiveX plug-in (limited capabilites in other browsers).  
  
TrendNet

|

IP Camera

|

[TV-IP512WN/](http://www.trendnet.com/products/proddetail.asp?prod=155_TV-
IP512WN&cat=149)[TV-
IP110W](http://www.trendnet.com/products/proddetail.asp?prod=155_TV-
IP512WN&cat=149)

|

all

|

2009

|

Indoor

|

/image/jpeg.cgi OR /cgi/jpg/image.cgi

|

  

|

  

|

Feature-rich inexpensive IP camera with good image quality, features 802.11n,
GPIO ports, not bad optics  
  
D-Link

|

IP Camera

|

[DCS-950G](http://www.dlink.com/products/?pid=DCS-950G)

|

firmware 1.07

|

 ?

|

Indoor

|

/_gCVimage.jpg

|

[Customer reviews](http://www.amazon.com/D-Link-Securicam-DCS-950G-Wireless-
Internet/product-
reviews/B0006GDCD0/ref=dp_top_cm_cr_acr_txt?ie=UTF8&showViewpoints=1)

|

Ap15e

|

It takes about 9(!) seconds to get the jpg file from the camera, but Vera's
generic Luup IP camera plugin times out after 5 seconds by default. Starting
with Ui4 a timeout option was added to the device settings for the camera,
which you can increase to 10.  
  
D-Link

|

IP Camera

|

[DCS-920](http://www.dlink.com/products/?pid=664) (also DCS-930 and DCS-932)

|

firmware 1.05?

|

 ?

|

Indoor

|

/image/jpeg.cgi

  
/image.jpg

|

  

|

futzle

|

Standard timeout (5 seconds) works. It may be necessary to turn on access
control (username/password) on the camera's web configuration, and set Vera to
use the username/password.  
  
D-link | IP Camera |

## DCS-5020L

|   |   | indoor | [/image/jpeg.cgi](http://10.10.10.74//image/jpeg.cgi) |   |
|  
  
Wanscam

|

IP Camera

|

aj-c2wa-c198

|

|

|

Indoor

|

/videostream.cgi

|

|

mcvdaniel

|

It may be necessary to use the original software that came with the camera to
find it on the network.  
  
Aviosys (Yoics) | IP Camera server |
[9100a](http://www.aviosys.com/downloads/manuals/video/9100%28A%29%20Plus
%20Manual-NB%20-V2.37.pdf) |   |   | Indoor/Outdoor | /usr/yoics0.jpg  
/usr/yoics1.jpg  
/usr/yoics2.jpg  
/usr/yoics3.jpg |   | mcvadi | The number for the URL depends on the port that
the camera is connected to (/usr/yoics1.jpg is for port 2 on the server). Each
camera uses the same IP address (the one from the camera server).  
  
IPUX

|

IP Camera

|

ICS 2330

|  |  |  | /cgi/mjpg/mjpg.cgi |  |

mcvanne

|

Camera must be setup to use MJPEG compression from the camera configuration
page.  
  
Hikvison

|

IP Camera

|

DS-2CD7153-E

|

All

|

2012

|

Indoor/Outdoor

|

/Streaming/channels/1/picture

|

|

ndwalters

|

Perform initial setup via web interface.  
  
Hikvison

|

IP Camera

|

DS-2CD852MF-E

|

All

|

2012

|

Indoor/Outdoor

|

/Streaming/channels/1/picture

|

|

ndwalters

|

Perform initial setup via web interface.  
  
Dahua

|

IP Camera

|

IPC-Hx2xxxP

|

Firmware 2.103.0000.0.T.20130220

|

2013

|

Indoor/Outdoor

|

/cgi-bin/snapshot.cgi?channel=0

|

|

ndwalters

|

Perform initial setup via web interface.  
  
Dahua

|

IP Camera

|

IPC-Hx3xxxP

|

Firmware 2.103.0000.0.T.20121219

|

2013

|

Indoor/Outdoor

|

/cgi-bin/snapshot.cgi?channel=0

|

|

ndwalters

|

Perform initial setup via web interface.  
  
Axis

| IP Camera | [M1011-W](http://www.axis.com/products/cam_m1011w/index.htm) |
|   | Indoor | /axis-cgi/jpg/image.cgi |   | mcvadi |  
Dahua | IP Camera | IPC-HFW2100 |   |   | Indoor/Outdoor |
IP:9988/onvif/media_service/snapshot |   | mcvadi | To view the JPEG snapshot
you will have to use port 9988.  
  
**Cameras that don't work**

Manufacturer  |  Device Type  |  Model no.  |  Version  |  Date Purchased  |
Location (indoor/outdoor)  |  Path for JPEG image  |  Product Review  |  Added
by  |  Notes  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
Trendnet

|

IP Camera

|

TV-IP100W

|

all

|

2007

|

Indoor

|

none

|

  

|

  

|

This camera can only serve images using DirectX or Java. The workaround is
complex: "using a PC you can use MPlayer to strip out a JPG image from the
video stream (asf). You can then store the JPG snapshot on a PC, then run a
web server and Vera can then "fetch" the image from the PC instead of the
camera."  
  
Schlage

|

IP Camera

|

WCW100

|

all

|

2010

|

Indoor

|

none

|

  

|

Ray

|

This camera does not give an IP address out of the box. In order for it work,
it needs to be activated using the Schlage LiNK system. Without paying for the
Schlage LiNK membership, this camera cannot be used with Vera unless there's a
way of forcing the activation.

Update: The camera might work after a firmware update. More info here:
[[4]](http://forum.micasaverde.com/index.php?topic=6581.0) and here
[[5]](http://forum.micasaverde.com/index.php?topic=5841.15)  
  
Asante

|

IP Camera

|

Voyager I

|

firmware 2.00

|

2010

|

Indoor

|

none

|

  

|

Ray

|

This camera is inexpensive, very feature rich, has very good image quality,
and has night vision capabilities. However, there is no publicly accessible
URL to grab a live JPG from the camera. The web interface requires an ActiveX
plug-in to view the live video feed and there is a snapshot button that will
deliver a JPG. Asante is reportedly making changes to their camera in the next
version of the firmware that should resolve some of these issues.  
  
  

